# The Application of the SIR Framework to Analyze COVID-19 Transmission Patterns by Nipun Saxena and Plinio Zanini

The COVID-19 pandemic has shown us the need for efficient public health measures  and a better understanding of how diseases spread. This study applies the Susceptible-Infectious-Recovered (SIR) model to analyze transmission trends across six countries (the United States, Canada, India, Russia, Brazil, and China), primarily focusing on variations in infection (beta) and recovery (gamma) rates. Using weekly COVID-19 data from Our World Data, we segmented the pandemic into distinct waves from countries local maxima and minima. We then estimated SIR parameters to measure the impact of population density, healthcare capacity, and interventions such as lockdowns and mask mandates, and vaccination campaigns. Our analysis shows that densely populated regions with limited healthcare resources expressed higher beta values, while gamma rates significantly increased following vaccination efforts. Countries with rapid healthcare, such as Canada and China, demonstrated lower beta values and higher gamma values, which correlates with stable reproduction numbers (R0) over time. Strict lockdowns directly correlates with reduced transmission rates, and the role of vaccination programs greatly enhances the recovery rates. Regional differences and data reporting limitations illustrate the need for context-specific public health policies. This study shows us the use of the SIR model in planning for the next pandemic.

